# Sale_Data

Title: Analysing Sales data-set to answer business questions using excel and tableau

Author: Abiola Yussuf

Date: 2024-08-01

## Project Description

This is an analysis of the Sales performance of an American sales data sheet, I will analyse data from sales dataset from category table, product table,region, state, order date, order ID, country,shipping date,customer name and customer ID both on Excel and tableau to solve different business questions which I imported the dataset to excel and tableau from local disk respectively.

### Disclaimer: This is not real-world project but use for the purpose of learning to demostrate my skills in Excel and tableau

## Problem Statement.

The goal of this anlysis is to visualised the following in Tableau;

- Calculate the total gender (revenue) for each category of products.

- Determine which customer has placed the highest number of orders.

- Calculate the total sales generated by each person.

- calculate the total state generated bt states.

- Calculate the discount generated quarterly.

Building a top-level sales dashboard and discount dashboard for the executive team. The purpose is to allow them to quickly understand the company's performance in key areas, including:

- Sales trends
- Product performance
- Country production

## Data Source
The data used for this work is gotten from America Sales Data. I studied the Schema, Objects related to the Schema, data dictionary and found the right tables for the analysis.

## Thank you for reading

I am open for entry-level data anlalyst role.

Let us have discussion about your company and industry now!

Welcome to my portfolio. This project demostrate my skill in Excel and Tableau
